# CS-405
Coursework for CS-405

Below is the text of the Module 8 Portfolio Reflection:

In this course, we set forth a model security policy and presented it alongside argumentation for its adoption by a fictional company. Part of the security policy was an endorsement of security as a part of the architecture of projects, an evaluation of risk in quantifiable terms, the underlying principles of zero trust (which underpin the basis for the necessity of input validation and a triple-a framework), and other policies like the adoption of coding standards.
	The concept of zero trust is integral to understanding why security must be developed as an integral part of a project and why certain principles take precedence in the security policy. Zero trust is a mindset that all interactions with a system can be treated as potential attacks against the system, meaning that all data entering the system is untrusted by default (and also all permissions are denied by default) and only trusted once validation and authentication take place. Imagining security in this way avoids leaving attack surfaces unguarded due to blindly trusted data, and accentuates the need to place security checks within the code from the very start of development. If every piece of code is working to validate that the data it receives is well formed and that authorization checks are not being bypassed, the overall codebase will have a highly diminished attack surface.
	With the concept above of zero trust guiding the development of our security principles, we now can discuss the need for a coding standard and security policy to cement these principles into practice. Unifying these principles into a single resource and providing guidelines that can be followed to implement them allows for a consistent application of security measures across an organization. Having the coding standards in place also outlines for developers what is and isn’t acceptable in terms of code quality, and provides examples of coding best practices as well as anti-patterns that are to be avoided. This can make a valuable resource for onboarding employees who may have prior experience that was less security-focused and may not fully be aware of potential vulnerabilities that we are seeking to eliminate.
	Finally, a quantified assessment of risk and cost analysis provides a clear image of where priorities and resources should be focused. There are myriad exploits in the wild for any given piece of software, and novel, zero-day exploits may always arise proving risk where previously no vulnerability was known, however, there are certain operations that can result in greater potential damage if exploited than others, and therefore we can focus our efforts on securing those attack surfaces before others. For example, dynamic memory operations often pose the greatest risk and the most common attack vector for the majority of programs. By clearly stating the priority level of memory management and accompanying it with a high cost of remediation assessment, we can ensure that all efforts are taken to avoid these vulnerabilities to the extent of our abilities.
	Overall, the necessity of a security policy in our increasingly networked landscape is clear, as is the risk of potential attacks. Adopting standards, policies, and principles that mitigate the effects these attacks can potentially cause should be a priority for any organization that aims to develop or use networked technology.
